hey hi everyone recently we got emails
that you know open AI has released the
chat GPT and Whisper API that's an
amazing thing because everyone is
waiting for let's say charge GPT API and
they have given some details like how
people are using it one of the important
thing is actually you know this is how
we call now we got new endpoint called
chat completions so we could use this
chart completion and you know it will be
better than let's have existing chat
whatever sorry the existing gpd3 model
because chart gpt3 can remember the
history of the conversation that what we
have right and that's what I wanted to
test now so I have you know I will show
you what exactly and how to use that
particular thing so definitely first
thing you know we're going to need an
open end it's to be installed you need
to have your own key
and this is how the syntax that you
could see for the uh you know chat GPT
for completion the first of all the
model name is you know GPT 3.5 turbo
model and then
as this is going to be a chat model we
need to give a set of messages or the
list of messages as input to the model
and that will tell you know the
conversation history with the model the
interesting thing is it has three roles
one is the system role then the user
role like you and me who going to
interact with and then the assistant
this is something the more role the
model is going to play and we're going
to decide you know uh what role the
model is going to play so the system
role the content is actually the text
that we want to send to the model so
here we are saying that hey you need to
behave like a helpful assistant so
system role is actually uh you know kind
of a setting some behavior for the
models and character some kind of you
know personality to the model these are
the base instruction you can give to the
model so that it can follow throughout
the conversation and then subsequent
messages are as per the user or the
assistant so user is what we're going to
say to the model and this will represent
the whatever the response from the model
and this way we will you know uh
continue that conversation I will show
you how to do that particular thing so
let's say here we took uh one
conversation here again we're going to
use that chat completion endpoint model
will be gpt3 you know 3.5 turbo now see
what is our message history looks like
we have a role now we are saying that
hey this is the system role we are
setting some you know expectation we are
saying that you are a helpful AIT tone
that's the expectation from the model
and then this is the user we're going to
say if we say something like this the
content is what we're going to say I am
saying that hey whatever I am pradeep
and I want to learn Ai and then you know
this is a response from the model and
this is what model is saying and we can
continue now you know
this whole thing we can continue
actually you know throughout our
conversation maybe we can uh let's say
let me remove this particular partly
actually we have only this kind of
conversation and see what happens
actually or you know if you want to see
maybe we can put some question to the
model here
right now the user is asking what is NLP
we have said some pre uh conversation
now let's see what happens if you hit
that API
now you could see this is how API
response object looks like you have a
choices
and inside the choices there is a list
so definitely we're going to care about
the first choice because there is only
one uh element in that list and if you
see
that list has a element called message
and inside that message you get actually
the role and the content and that's what
we want to extract so we're going to use
inner choices and this is the message
that we can extract from the model and
you could see the model is explaining me
what is NLP and all this thing so this
is like similar to let's say what you
will use a gpt3 but now what we want to
test we want to test the model
capability of having a conversation uh
you know uh the way it can remember
things and that's what we're going to
test actually so let's do one thing I
created small small functions so that we
can test you know our model the first
thing we set some initial conversation
that we had with the model that
conversation is simple thing that we are
saying that model that you will be an
AIT tour and then I'm you know telling
who I am and what is my interest and
then this is some kind of a model
response so this is like initial chat
history that what we want to start with
then I created some helper function this
function is actually updates our chat
chat is nothing but this messages what
it does it simply take the you know
messages that what we had the role
because whether we want to know whether
it's a you know a system that is a model
or is it the user message that we want
to update in the chat history so this is
what it is taking role and then the
content the actual message that want to
add here so this is what uh you know
that particular function does and it
simply append one dictionary in this
particular setting right that's what it
does it simply a paint a new you know
record in this particular thing now then
we create a new function to get a
response from the model so we have
function gate response what it takes it
simply take this message I should have
called it messages actually it would
have make more sense so let's call it
actually the messages so that there is
no confusion actually right these are
the messages that uh you know it's going
to
update and it's going to say in that
particular messages so let's maybe you
know
run these functions which is actually a
helper function for updating chat this
is the helper function to get response
from the
model given our uh you know chat if you
want to test what exactly uh they are
doing we can test it actually for
example let's call this function gate
response from the model
because we know that in our chat okay we
might want to let's take this outside
while testing and we could see you know
how it reacts so let's take this
messages here
maybe and then now we are asking what is
NLP we are giving that message to let's
say the model let's call this thing and
let's see what model uh this function
will do
let's run this thing and let's run this
we came to know that you know sorry this
is what response we got that NLP is and
all this thing so we know how this
helper function is working the similarly
we have the update chat function so
maybe uh we can go and look at the more
uh you know particular example actually
what we want to achieve
so we start with some basic history this
is like full example what we want to do
with those particular helper function
what we have we don't need this thing
now because this is just I wanted to
show you uh about it so we only care
about updating chat then getting
response from the model
again we don't need this thing we just
tested it
and this is where we're going to start
our fresh messages it's same thing what
we hear now we want to have some kind of
a loop which runs continuously it prints
whatever our initial conversation we had
till the point and then we asked for our
input because we want to have some kind
of a chat conversation then it takes our
input and update the chart history so it
will obtain one record after this
and then once we it get that final
updated chat then it will ask model for
response based on our input and whenever
we get the model response we want to
again update the chat so that that cycle
continues right so let's see what
happens and how it remembers things
let me run this thing now see we want to
ask let's say what is NLP so I try to
you know type those all things here
because I don't want to you know keep
typing so let's say I ask what is NLP
and now you could see our history got
updated here you could see this is what
our current states looks like this was
earlier and this is what the new thing
model uh you know responded so you could
see everything it has the earlier
conversation what we ask and what model
has responded now we can ask the new
thing let's see what I can ask next
thing
let's say I want to ask you know can you
tell me some few use cases or the three
use cases for the NLP so this is like a
chat thing happening right again if you
would see
it has given response so whole history
got updated maybe you know I tell can
you tell me three use cases and now it
is giving me three use cases one two and
three use cases right now let's say I
want to see whether the model remembers
what I said right so let's ask that
thing I want to see whether it can
repeat my name because I have given name
in the conversation earlier so let's see
whether model can remember my name
and we should see and it is responses of
course your name is pradeep because
that's what I told uh you know uh model
earlier so you could see it is able to
actually you know
uh kind of you know uh it is able to
remember what we are saying right and
that's what we could say but I say there
is a mistake okay you see our chat is
not correct because there is a mistake
this when while updating the model
this is not the user this actually an
assistant okay so this is something I
just came to know because in rush I
created something but but you got no
right this is kind of mistake even you
can do so let's do one thing let's read
and I know that there was no mistake
from the model but let's run it again
because we saw that it has to be
assistant while updating right so this
is something you also need to make sure
that while you are updating conversation
make sure the conversations are actually
tagged to the say you know uh the
appropriate role whether it's a user or
whether it's a model now let's start
again fresh uh so that we see that again
ask us what is NLP
and then you know up to this point you
could see is it now correct that I ask
it is a user and the response from the
model now it is correct
let's see now I ask you know what are
those
three use cases of NL key that it can
tell me
and you could see we got a response it
is pretty fast actually you could see
this is what I ask and then this is what
response from the model the three use
cases now we want to ask whether it can
remember my name and that's what we want
to see whether it can remember my name
yes is this saying that my name is
pradeep this is good thing because this
was not possible with the earlier gpt3
model right but this is now happening
with the chat chipity kind of thing now
we can again see whether it can remember
now it said that these are the three use
cases now I want to ask can you tell me
more about let's say any particular use
case let's say about the second positive
or maybe I would say Second Use case
now let's see whether it can you know
take that context that I am actually I
actually have asked about you know three
use cases and then see whether it can
remember and give us Second Use case
which is the language translation let's
see what happens
so okay let's let's go through and we
asked you know can you talk more about
the Second Use case and it started
talking about the language translation
can we check yes because when it said
last name the language translation was
the Second Use case so see this is
really powerful it can remember what we
said earlier the same kind of interface
we had here in you know this chat
uh let's say GPT interface now we have
that same power using programming and
you know we can do a lot of amazing
things so I just wanted to quickly
record the video because I just saw in
half an hour before you know we got
something so I created this helper
function and I just wanted to quickly
experiment it and show you you know how
to use this particular thing I will you
know share this notebook also so that
you guys can experiment modify those
functions okay I hope you will find this
video useful right thank you very much
